update overview section to sync with supervisor domains terminology (#33)
riscv-non-isa/riscv-ap-tee: specification/overview.adoc

== Architecture Overview and Threat Model

Virtualization platforms are typically comprised of several components including
platform firmware, host OS, VMM, and the actual payloads that run on them
(typically in a VM). A monolith Supervisor Domain exists with the host OS/VMM
including device drivers and services forming the TCB. This model is well
established, but the downside is that most platform components are in the TCB.
This aspect is ill-suited for Confidential Computing workloads that rely on
HW-Attested Trusted Execution Environments, and strive to minimize the software
and hardware TCB.

This specification describes the CoVE architecture which enables a new class
of hardware-attested trusted execution environment called TEE Virtual Machines
(TVMs). The TVMs are supported by a hardware-rooted, attestable TCB and its
execution state and memory are run-time-isolated from the host OS/VMM and other
platform software not in the TCB of the TVM. TVMs are protected from a broad
set of software-based and hardware-based threats per the threat model described

> in <<threatmodel>>. The design describes a seperate (Confidential) Supervisor

Author: ```suggestion
in <<threatmodel>>. The design describes an isolated (Confidential) Supervisor
```

> Domain to enforce TCB and confidentiality properties, while using a seperate

Author: ```suggestion
Domain to enforce TCB and confidentiality properties, while using an isolated
```

(Hosting) Supervisor Domain for the host domain, thus maintaining the OS/VMMs
role as the resource manager (for both legacy VMs and TVMs). The resources
managed by the hosting supervisor domain (OS/VMM) include memory, CPU, I/O

> resources and platform capabilities to host the TVM workload.

Author: ```suggestion
resources and platform capabilities to host the TVM workload. The terms
hosting supervisor domain and OS/VMM are used interchangeably in this 
specification.
```

[caption="Figure {counter:image}: ", reftext="Figure {image}"]
[title= "TCB Isolation for VM workloads using Supervisor Domains"]
image::img_0.png[]

> As shown in figure 1, the Confidential Supervisor Domain is managed by software

Author: updated

that operates in HS-mode and manages resources granted to it by the Hosting
Supervisor Domain Manager (the OS/VMM). The Confidential Supervisor Domain
Manager is called the " *TEE Security Manager* " or *(TSM)* - it acts as the
trusted intermediary between TEE and non-TEE workloads on the same platform.
The TSM should have a minimal HW-attested footprint. The TCB (which includes
the TSM and HW) enforces strict confidentiality and integrity security

> properties for workloads in this supervisor domain. An M-mode software module
> (" *TSM-driver* ") isolates this Confidential Supervisor Domain from all other
> Supervisor domains and other platform components (non-confidential and

Author: ```suggestion
properties for workloads in this supervisor domain. The Root Security Manager 
is an M-mode software module (called the " *TSM-driver* ") which isolates the 
Confidential Supervisor Domain from all other Supervisor domains and other 
platform components (non-confidential and
```

confidential). The responsibility of the TSM is to enforce the security
objectives accorded to TEE workloads assigned to that supervisor domain. The
VMM is expected to continue to manage the security for non-confidential
workloads, and importantly the resource-assignment and scheduling management
functions for all workloads (confidential and non-confidential).

In this scheme, compute resources like memory start off as traditional
untrusted resources owned by the non-confidential/hosting supervisor domain, and
are expected to be donated/transitioned to the confidential supervisor domain
via ABI supported by the TSM. Once the conversion process is complete,
confidential memory may be assigned to one or more TVMs by the TSM.
A converted confidential resource may be freely assigned to another TVM within
the same supervisor domain when it is no longer in use. However, an
unused confidential resource must be explicitly reclaimed for use in the

> non-confidential supervisor domain (such memory conversions are tracked and

Author: added clarification

enforced via the TSM in the owning supervisor domain to enforce isolation

> properties).

Author: ```suggestion
properties). The hosting supervisor domain can use the reclaimed memory 
for itself or for non-confidential VMs.
```

execute and destroy a TVM - _this specification aims to describe the TEEI and
TSM interfaces_. By using the Hypervisor extension of the RISC-V privileged
specification <<R0>>, this specification minimizes ISA changes to introduce
a scalable architecture for hosting TEE workloads. More than one confidential
supervisor domains may be hosted by the TSM-driver. Similarly, more than one
TVMs may be hosted by the host OS/VMM via confidential supervisor domains.
Each TVM may consist of the guest firmware, a guest OS and applications. The
software components included in the TVM are implementation specific.

As shown in figure 1, the M-mode firmware TSM-driver is in the TCB of all
Supervisor domains and hence in the TCB for all CoVE workloads hosted on the
platform. The TSM-driver (operating in M-mode) uses
the hardware capabilities to provide:

* Isolation of memory associated with TEEs (including the TSM). We describe
*TEE- capable memory* as memory that is subject to access-control,
confidentiality and integrity suitable for use for CoVE components.
For Supervisor Domain memory isolation, the Smmtt extension may be used for

> deployment scenarios where the TSM is at the same privilege level as the VMM.

Reviewer: Is it better if we align this domain terminology instead of VMM ? For example:
/s/VMM/hosting supervisor domain ?

Author: i added a note in the intro section above - The terms hosting supervisor domain and OS/VMM are used interchangeably in this specification.

designed to be portable across AP-TEE class platforms and interact with the
machine specific capabilities in the platform through the TEEI. The TSM
provides an ABI to the OS/VMM which has two aspects: A set of host ABIs known
as *COVH* that includes functions to manage the lifecycle of the TVM, such as
creating, adding pages to a TVM, scheduling a TVM for execution, etc. in an
OS/platform agnostic manner. The TSM also provides an ABI to the TVM contexts:
A set of guest ABIs known as *COVG* that enables the TVM workload to request
attestation functions, memory management functions or paravirtualized IO.

In order to isolate the TVMs from the host OS/VMM and non-confidential VMs,
the TSM state must be isolated first - this is achieved by enforcing isolation
for memory assigned to the Supervisor Domain that the TSM occupies - this is
called the *TSM-memory-region.* The TSM-memory-region is expected to be a
static region of memory that holds the TSM code and data. This region must be
access-controlled from all software outside the TCB (e.g. using Smmtt), and may
be additionally protected against physical access via cryptographic mechanisms.

> Access to the TSM- memory-region and execution of code from the

Reviewer: /s/TSM-memory-region/TSM- memory-region

Author: fixed

> Access to the TSM- memory-region and execution of code from the

Author: ```suggestion
Access to the TSM-memory-region and execution of code from the
```

> Access to the TSM- memory-region and execution of code from the

Author: ```suggestion
Access to the TSM-memory-region and execution of code from the
```

TSM-memory-region (for the TSM ABIs) is enforced in hardware via the maintenance
of the execution context (ASID, VMID and SDID) maintained per hart. This context
is enabled per-hart via the TEECALL interface to context switch into the
confidential supervisor domain context via the TSM-driver and disabled
via the TEERET interface to context restore to the hosting supervisor domain.
Access to TEE-assigned memory is allowed for the hart when the access is

> permitted per the active permissions enforced by the MMU for the supervisor

Reviewer: /s/per/as per ?

> permitted per the active permissions enforced by the MMU for the supervisor

Author: ```suggestion
permitted as per the active permissions enforced by the MMU for the supervisor
```

> permitted per the active permissions enforced by the MMU for the supervisor

Author: ```suggestion
permitted as per the active permissions enforced by the MMU for the supervisor
```
